# Distributed-Systems

## lab1

### Part I: Map/Reduce input and output

The code we give you is missing two crucial pieces: the function that divides up the output of a map task, and the function that gathers all the inputs for a reduce task. These tasks are carried out by the doMap() function in common_map.go, and the doReduce() function in common_reduce.go respectively.

#### lint

```sh
$ go test -run Sequential
```

If the output did not show ok next to the tests, your implementation has a bug in it. To give more verbose output, set `debugEnabled = true` in `common.go`, and add `-v` to the test command above. You will get much more output along the lines of:

```sh
$ go test -v -run Sequential
```

### Part II: Single-worker word count

Now you will implement word count — a simple Map/Reduce example. Look in main/wc.go; you'll find empty mapF() and reduceF() functions. Your job is to insert code so that wc.go reports the number of occurrences of each word in its input. A word is any contiguous sequence of letters, as determined by unicode.IsLetter.

Your mapF() will be passed the name of a file, as well as that file's contents; it should split the contents into words, and return a Go slice of mapreduce.KeyValue. While you can choose what to put in the keys and values for the mapF output, for word count it only makes sense to use words as the keys. Your reduceF() will be called once for each key, with a slice of all the values generated by mapF() for that key. It must return a string containing the total number of occurences of the key.

#### lint

```sh
$ export "GOPATH=$PWD"
$ cd "$GOPATH/src/main"
$ go run wc.go master sequential pg-*.txt
```

You can test your solution using:
```sh
$ time go run wc.go master sequential pg-*.txt
```

The output will be in the file "mrtmp.wcseq". Your implementation is correct if the following command produces the output shown here:

```sh
$ sort -n -k2 mrtmp.wcseq | tail -10
that: 7871
it: 7987
in: 8415
was: 8578
a: 13382
of: 13536
I: 14296
to: 16079
and: 23612
the: 29748
```

You can remove the output file and all intermediate files with:
```sh
$ rm mrtmp.*
```

To make testing easy for you, run:
```
$ bash ./test-wc.sh
```

### Part III: Distributing MapReduce tasks

The master calls schedule() twice during a MapReduce job, once for the Map phase, and once for the Reduce phase. schedule()'s job is to hand out tasks to the available workers. There will usually be more tasks than worker threads, so schedule() must give each worker a sequence of tasks, one at a time. schedule() should wait until all tasks have completed, and then return. 

schedule() learns about the set of workers by reading its registerChan argument. That channel yields a string for each worker, containing the worker's RPC address. Some workers may exist before schedule() is called, and some may start while schedule() is running; all will appear on registerChan. schedule() should use all the workers, including ones that appear after it starts.

schedule() tells a worker to execute a task by sending a Worker.DoTask RPC to the worker. This RPC's arguments are defined by DoTaskArgs in mapreduce/common_rpc.go. The File element is only used by Map tasks, and is the name of the file to read; schedule() can find these file names in mapFiles.

Use the call() function in mapreduce/common_rpc.go to send an RPC to a worker. The first argument is the the worker's address, as read from registerChan. The second argument should be "Worker.DoTask". The third argument should be the DoTaskArgs structure, and the last argument should be nil.

#### lint

```sh
go test -run TestParallel
```

- RPC package documents the Go RPC package.
- schedule() should send RPCs to the workers in parallel so that the workers can work on tasks concurrently. You will find the go statement useful for this purpose; see Concurrency in Go.
- schedule() must wait for a worker to finish before it can give it another task. You may find Go's channels useful.
- You may find sync.WaitGroup useful.
- The easiest way to track down bugs is to insert print statements (perhaps calling debug() in common.go), collect the output in a file with go test -run TestParallel > out, and then think about whether the output matches your understanding of how your code should behave. The last step is the most important.
- To check if your code has race conditions, run Go's race detector with your test: go test -race -run TestParallel > out.


### Part IV: Handling worker failures

In this part you will make the master handle failed workers. MapReduce makes this relatively easy because workers don't have persistent state. If a worker fails while handling an RPC from the master, the master's call() will eventually return false due to a timeout. In that situation, the master should re-assign the task given to the failed worker to another worker.

An RPC failure doesn't necessarily mean that the worker didn't execute the task; the worker may have executed it but the reply was lost, or the worker may still be executing but the master's RPC timed out. Thus, it may happen that two workers receive the same task, compute it, and generate output. Two invocations of a map or reduce function are required to generate the same output for a given input (i.e. the map and reduce functions are "functional"), so there `won't be inconsistencies` if subsequent processing sometimes reads one output and sometimes the other. In addition, the MapReduce framework ensures that map and reduce function output appears `atomically`: the output file will either not exist, or will contain the entire output of a single execution of the map or reduce function (the lab code doesn't actually implement this, but instead only fails workers at the end of a task, so there aren't concurrent executions of a task).